# Ant colony optimization for finding shortest distance between two point covering max nodes
Finding the shortest distance that will cover various points to reach one point from another
Approach:
The approach consists in grouping the points into clusters so that each cluster can be served as a route satisfying the constraints that exist. In fact, the problem is decomposed into two sub-problems. In the first instance, nodes of the graph (bus stops) are grouped and assigned to the buses (clustering phase). Then, each cluster is solved individually. During the assignment phase, clusters must satisfy buses capacity constraints, as well as fleet size. During the second phase, each pickup (or delivery) point cannot be visited more than once. The key target of this two-phase procedure is defining the clusters in such a way that the distance to be traveled by each bus between pickup (or delivery) points is the shorter as possible. Hence, the probabilistic nature of ACO method will very quickly find good routing. Following is the possible mathematical modeling:
Formally, the problem can be represented by a graph Y=(N,A) where N is the set of nodes and A is the set of arcs in the graph. Each node represents a point in which points have to be serviced, while an arc corresponds to the route to go from node i to node j. The weight Cij of each arc represents the cost (in terms of distance) of routes. The total number of nodes in the graph represents the total number of stops that a bus has to service, while the demand, noted as pi, of each node corresponds to the number of points to be picked up (or dropped off) by the bus. The capacity of each vehicle k={1,2,..,M} is noted as Kk. It is to assumed that each bus starts and finishes the route at the office, which represents the depot. Let the Xij (i ≠ j) be a binary variable equal to 1 if and only if arc (i, j) appears in the optimal solution and 0 otherwise. The parameter Cij is the associated distance incurred if the arc (i, j) is used .
The goal is to minimize the cost (Cij) subject to  Xij = 1 in order find the shortest feasible route possible.
